foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- - Who are you? - My name is Prior Walter My name is Prior Walter - I know that - Explain You're alive. I'm not. We have the same name. What do you want me to explain? - A ghost? - An ancestor Not the Prior Walter? The Bayeux tapestry Prior Walter? - His great-great-grandson. The filth of the name - I'm the thirty-fourth, I think - Actually the thirty-second - Not according to Mother She's including the two bastards. I say leave them out. I say no room for bastards - The little things you swallow... - Pills - Pills. For the pestilence. I too... - Pestilence... You too what? The pestilence in my day was much worse than now. Whole villages of empty houses You could look outdoors and see Death walking in the morning... ...dew dampening the ragged hem of his black robe. Plain as I see you now - You died of the plague - The spotty monster - Like you, alone - I'm not alone - You have no wife, no children - I'm gay So? Be gay, dance in your altogether for all I care, what's that to do with not having children? Gay homosexual, not bonny, blithe and" Never mind I had twelve. When I died. And I was three years younger man him Oh God another one - Prior Walter. Prior to you by some seventeen others - He's counting the bastards Are we having a convention? We've been sent to declare Her fabulous incipience They love a well-paved entrance with lots of heralds, and... The Messenger comes. Prepare the way. The infinite descent, a breath in air They chose us, I suspect, because of the mortal affinities In a family as long-descended as the Walters there are bound to be a few carried off by plague - The spotty monster - Black Jack Came from a water pump, half the city of London, can you imagine? His me from fleas Yours, I understand, is the lamentable consequence of venery Fleas on rats, but who knew that? - Am I going to die? - We aren't allowed to discuss When you do, you don't get ancestors to help you through it You may be surrounded by children but you die alone - I'm afraid - You should be There aren't even torches, and the path's rocky, dark and steep Don't alarm him. There's good news before there's bad We two come to strew rose petal and palm leaf before the triumphal procession Prophet. Seer. Revelator - It's a great honor for the family - He hasn't got a family I meant for the Walters, for the family in the larger sense All I want is a room somewhere, Far away from the cold night air... Calm, calm, this is no brain fever Even now, from the mirror-bright halls of Heaven, across the cold and lifeless infinity of space... ...the Messenger comes trailing orbs of light, fabulous, incipient, 0 Prophet, to you Prepare, prepare, the infinite descent A breath, a feather, glory to... Why has democracy succeeded in America? Of course by succeeded... ...I mean comparatively, not literally, not in the present but what makes for the prospect... ...of some sort of radical democracy spreading outward and growing up? Why does the power that was once so carefully preserved at the top of the pyramid... ...by the original framers of the Constitution seem drawn inexorably downward and outward... ...in spite of the best efforts of the Right to stop this? I mean it's the really hard thing about being Left in this country The American Left can't help but trip over all these petrified little fetishes Freedom, that's the worst, you know. Jeane Kirkpauidx for God's sake will go on and on about freedom... ...and so what does that mean, the word 'freedom', when she talks about it, or human rights? You got Bush talking about human rights, and so what are these people talking about? They might as well be talking about the mating habits of Venusians These people don't begin to know what, ontologically, freedom is, or human rights Like they see these bourgeois property-based Rights-of-Man-type fights... ...but tl1at's not enfranchisement. not democracy, not what's implicit, what's potential within the idea... ...not the idea with blood in it That's just liberalism, the worst kind of liberalism, really, bourgeois tolerance And what I think is that what AIDS shows us is the limits of tolerance That it's not enough to be tolerated, because when the shh his the fan... ...you find out how much tolerance is worth Nothing. And underneath all the tolerance is intense, passionate hatred Uh-huh - Well don't you think that's hue? - Uh-huh. It is Power is the object, not being tolerated. Fuck assimilation But I mean in spite of all this the thing about America, I think, is that ultimately... ...we're different from every other nation on earth, in that, with people here of every race, we can't... Ultimately what defines us isn't race, but politics. Not like any European country... ...where there's an insurmountable fact of a kind of racial, or ethnic, monopoly, or monolith Like all Dutchmen, I mean Dutch people, are well, Dutch And the Jews of Europe were never Europeans, just a small problem. Facing the monolith. But here... ...there are so many small problems, it's really just a collection of small problems, the monolith is missing Oh, I mean, of course I suppose there's the monolith of White America. White Straight Male America - Which is not unimpressive, even among monoliths - Well, no But when the race thing gets taken care of... and I don't mean to minimalize how major it is I mean I know it is, this is a really, really incredibly racist country... ...but it's like, well, the British. I mean, all these blue-eyed pink people And it's just weird, you know, I mean I'm not all that Jewish-looking Or... well, maybe I am but, you know, in New York, everyone is Well, not everyone, but so many are, but so But in England, in London I walk into bars and I feel like Sid the Yid You know I mean like Woody Allen in Annie Hall, with the payess and the gabardine coal Like never, never anywhere so much... I mean, not actively despised, not like they're Germans... ...who I think are still terribly anti-Semitic, and racist too, I mean black-racist They pretend otherwise but, anyway, in London, there's just... And atone point I met this black gay guy from Jamaica who talked with a lilt Even though he said his family been living in London since before the Civil War, the American one And how the English never let him forget for a minute that he wasn't blue-eyed and pink And I said yeah, me too, these people are anti-Semites and he said yeah But the British Jews have the clothing business all sewed up and blacks there can't get a foothold And it was an incredibly awkward moment of just... I mean here we were, in this bar that was gay but it was a pub, you know The beams and the plaster and those horrible little, like, two-day-old fish-and-egg sandwiches And just so British, so old, and I fell, well, there's no way out of this Because both of us are, right now, too much immersed in this history, hope is dissolved... ...in the sheer age of this place, where race is what counts and there's no real hope of change It's the racial destiny of the Brits that matters to them, not their political destiny, whereas in America... - Here in America race doesn't count - No, no, that's not... - I mean you can't be hearing that - I'm hearing a lot of different... Look, race, yes, but ultimately race here is a political question, fight? Racists just try to use race here as a tool in a political snuggle. It's not really about race Like the spiritualists try to use that stuff, are you enlightened, are you centered, channeled, whatever This reaming out for a spiritual past in a country where no indigenous spirits exist Only the Indians, I mean Native Americans, and we killed them off, so now there are no gods here No ghosts and spirits in America, there are no angels in America, no spiritual past, no racial past There's only the political, and the decoys and the plays to maneuver around the inescapable battle of politics The shifting downwards and outwards of political power to the people Power to the People! Amen! Oh my goodness! Will you look at the time, I gotta go - Do you think this is racist or naive or something? - Well it's certainly something Look, I just remembered I have an appointment, so... What? I mean I really don't want to, like, speak from some position of privilege and... I'm sitting here, thinking, eventually he's got to run out of steam So I let you rattle on and on saying about maybe seven or eight things I find really offensive - What? - But I know you. Louis And I know the guilt fueling this peculiar tirade is obviously already swollen bigger than your hemorrhoids - I don't have hemorrhoids. - I hear different. May I finish? - Yes, but I don't have hemorrhoids - So finally, when I do get a word in... - Prior told you. He's an asshole, he shouldn't have... - You promised, Louis. Prior is not a subject - You brought him up - I brought up hemorrhoids - So it's indirect. Passive-aggressive - Unlike, I suppose... ...banging me over the head with your theory that America doesn't have a race problem - Oh be fair, I never said that - Not exactly, but... But it was close enough, because if it'd been that blunt I'd've just walked out and... - You deliberately misinterpreted! I... - Stop interrupting! I haven't been able to... - Just let me... - No! What, talk? You've been running your mouth nonstop since I got here, yaddadda yaddadda blah blah blah - Up the hill, down the hill, playing with your monolith - Well, you could have joined in at any lime... And, girlfriend, it is truly an awesome spectacle but I got better things to do with my time... ...than sit here listening to this racist bullshit just because I feel sorry for you that... - I am not a racist! - Oh come on - So maybe I am a racist but... - Oh I really hate that It's no fun picking on you. Louis. You're so guilty, it's like throwing darts at a glob of jello There's no satisfying his, just quivering, the darts just blop in and vanish I just think when you are discussing lines of oppression... - ...it gets very complicated - Oh is that a fact! You know, we black drag queens have a rather intimate knowledge of the complexity of the lines of... - Ex-black drag queen - Actually ex-ex - You're doing drag again? - I don't... Maybe. I don't have to tell you. Maybe - I think it's sexist - I didn't ask you Well it is. The gay community, I think, has to adopt the same attitude towards drag... ...as black women have to take towards black women blues singers Oh my, we are walking dangerous tonight Well, it's all internalized oppression, right, I mean the masochism, the stereotypes, the... Louis, are you deliberately trying to make me hate you? - No, I... - I mean, are you deliberately transforming yourself... ...into an arrogant, sexual-political Stalinist-slash-racist flagwaving thug for my benefit? - You know what I think? - What? - You hate me because I'm a Jew - I'm leaving - It's true - You have no basis except your... Louis, it's good to know you haven't changed. You are still an honorary citizen of The Twilight Zone And after your pale, pale white polemics on behalf of racial insensitivity... ...you have a flaming fuck of a lot of nerve calling me an anti-Semis. Now I really gotta go - You called me Lou the Jew - That was a joke I didn't think it was funny. It was hostile - It was three years ago - So? - You just called yourself Sid the Yid - That's not the same thing - Sid the Yid is different from Lou the Jew - Yes Some day you'll have to explain that to me, but fight now... You hate me because you hate black people I do not. But I do think most black people are anti-Semitic 'Most black people' - That's racist, Louis, and I think most Jews... - Louis Farrakhan - Ed Koch - Jesse Jackson - Jackson. Oh really, Louis, this is... - Hymietown! Hymietown! Louis, you voted for Jesse Jackson! You send d1eolcs to the Rainbow Coalition - I'm ambivalent. The checks bounced - All your checks bounce, Louis - You're ambivalent about everything - What's that supposed to mean? You may be dumber than shit but I refuse to believe you can't figure it out. Try I was never ambivalent about Prior. I love him. I do. I really do - Nobody said different - Love and ambivalence are... Real love isn't ambivalent 'Real love isn't ambivalent' I'd swear that's a line from my favorite bestselling paperback novel, In Love with the Night Mysterious - Except I don't think you ever read it - I never read it, no You ought to. Instead of spending the rest of your life trying to get through Democracy in America It's about this white woman whose daddy owns a plantation in the Deep South... ...in the years before the Civil War, the American one, and her name is Margaret And she's in love with her daddy's number-one slave, and his name is Thaddeus And she's married but her white slave-owner husband has AIDS Antebellum Insufficiently Developed Sexorgans And there's a lot of hot stuff going down when Margaret and Thaddeus... ...can catch a spare torrid ten under the cotton-picking moon, and then of course the Yankees come And they set the slaves free, and the slaves string up old daddy, and so on. Historical fiction Somewhere in there I recall Margaret and Thaddeus find the time to discuss the nature of love Her face is reflecting the flames of the burning plantation... you know, the way white people do And his black face is dark in the night. And she says to him Thaddeus, real love isn't ever ambivalent' Thaddeus looks at her. He's contemplating her thesis, and he isn't sure he agrees - Treatment number four - Pharmaceutical miracle. Lazarus breathes again - How bad is he? - You want the laundry list? Shirt off, let's med! me... There's the weight problem and the shh problem and the morale problem Only six. That's good. Pants. And he thinks he's going crazy Looking good. What else? Ankles sore and swollen, but the leg's better. The nausea's mostly gone with the little orange pills BM's pure liquid but not bloody anymore, for now, my eye doctor says every1hing's OK, for now My dentist says 'Yuck!' when he sees my fuzzy tongue And now he wears little condoms on his thumb and forefinger. And a mask So what? My dermatologist is in Hawaii and my mother... Well, leave my mother out of it. Which is usually where my mother is, out of it My glands are like walnuts, my weights holding steady for week two And a friend died two days ago of bird tuberculosis Bird tuberculosis. That scared me and I didn't go to the funeral today because he was an Irish Catholic... ...and it's probably open casket and I'm afraid of... something, the bird TB or seeing him So I guess I'm doing OK. Except for of course I'm going nuts We ran the toxoplasmosis series and there's no indication... I know, I know, but I feel like something terrifying is on is way, you know Like a missile from outer space, and it's plummeting down towards the earth, and I'm ground zero, and... I am generally known where I am known as one cool, collected queen. And I am ruffled There's really nothing to worry about I think that shochen bamromim hamtzeh menucho nechono Al kanfey haschino - What? - Everything's fine Benaalos k'doshim ut'horim kezohar horokeea mazhirim Oh I don't understand what you're... Es nishmas Prior sheholoch leolomoh, baavur shenodvoo z'dokoh b'ad hazkoras nishmosoh... - Why are you doing that! Stop it Stop it - Stop what? You were just... Weren't you just speaking in Hebrew or something? Hebrew? I'm basically Irish-American. No. I didn't speak in Hebrew - Oh God please I really think I... - Look, I'm sorry, I have a waking room full You're one of the lucky ones, you'll live for years, probably You're pretty healthy for someone with no immune system Are you seeing someone? Loneliness is a danger - A therapist? - No, I don't need to see anyone, I just... Well think about it. You aren't going crazy. You're just under a lot of stress. No wonder Hebrew! - Help me - I beg your pardon? You're a nurse, give me something, I don't know what to do anymore Last week at work I screwed up the Xerox machine like permanently, and so I... Then I tripped on the subway steps and my glasses broke and I cut my forehead, here, see? And now I can't see much and my forehead, it's like the Mark of Cain Stupid, right, but 'won't heal and every morning I see it and I think Biblical things. Mark of Cain People who... in betraying what they love betray what's truest in themselves I feel nothing but cold for myself, just cold And every night I miss him, I miss him so much But then those sores, and the smell and... where I thought it was going. I could be... I could be sick, too, maybe I'm sick, too. I don't know Belize. Tell him I love him. Can you do that? I've thought about it for a very long time, and I still don't understand what love is Justice is simple. Democracy is simple. Those things are unambivalent But love is very hard. And it goes bad for you if you violate the hard law of love - I'm dying - He's dying. You just wish you were - Respect the delicate ecology of your delusions - You mean like no Eskimo in Antarctica Correcto. Ice and snow, no Eskimo. Even hallucinations have laws - Well then who's that? - An Eskimo - An Antarctic Eskimo. A fisher of the polar deep - There's something wrong with this picture I'm going to like this place. It's my own National Geographic Special Oh! I think I felt her kicking. Maybe I'll give birth to a baby covered with thick white fur And that way she won't be cold. My breasts will be full of hot cocoa so she doesn't get chilly And if it gets really cold, she'll have a pouch I can crawl into Like a marsupial. We'll mend together. That's what we'll do, we'll mend Excuse me? I said excuse me? Can you tell me where I am? Is this Brooklyn? Do you know a Pineapple Street? ls there some sort of bus or train or...? I'm lost, I just arrived from Salt Lake. City. Utah? I took the bus that I was told to take and I got off Well it was the very last stop, so I had to get off. and I asked the driver was this Brooklyn And he nodded yes but he was from one of those foreign countries where they think it's good manners... ...to nod at everything even if you have no idea what it is you're nodding at And in truth I think he spoke no English at all Which I think would make him ineligible for employment on public transportation The public being English-speaking, mostly. Do you speak English? I was supposed to be met at the airport by my son. He didn't show And I don't wan more than three and three-quarters hours for anyone. I should have been patient, I guess - Is this...? - Bronx Is that the Bronx? Well how in the name of Heaven did I get to the Bronx when the bus driver said... Slurp slurp slurp will you stop that disgusting slurping! You disgusting slurping feeding animal. Feeding yourself, just feeding yourself What would it matter. to you or to anyone, if you just stopped feeding. And died? - Can you just tell me where I... - Stand further off you fat loathsome whore You can't have any more of this soup, slurp slurp slurp you animal, and the... I know you'll just go pee it all away and where will you do that? Behind what bush? It's fucking sold out here and I... Have you read the prophecies of Nostradamus? - Who? - Some guy I went out with once somewhere Nostradamus. Prophet, outcast, eyes like... Scary shit Shut up. Please. Now I want you to stop jabbering for a minute... ...and pull your wits together and tell me how to get to Brooklyn Because you know. And you are going to tell me Because there is no one else around to tell me and I am wet and cold and I am very angry So I am sorry you're psychotic but just make the effort Take a deep breath. Do it That's good. Now exhale Good. Now how do I get to Brooklyn? Don't know. Never been. Sorry - Want some soup? - Manhattan? Maybe you know... I don't suppose you know the lotion of the Mormon Visitors'... - 65th and Broadway - How do you...? Go there all the time. Free movies. Boring, but you can stay all day - Well... So how do I... - Take the D train. Next block make a fight - Thank you - Oh yeah In the new century I think we will all be insane I can't. The answer's no. I'm sorry Oh, well, apologies. I can't see that there's anyone asking for apologies - I'm sorry, Roy - Oh, well, apologies My wife is missing, Roy. My mother's coming from Salt Lake to help look, I guess I'm supposed to be at the airport now, picking her up But I just spent two days in a hospital, Roy, with a bleeding ulcer, I was spitting up blood - Blood, huh? Look, I'm very busy here and... - It's just a job A job? A job? Washington! Dumb Utah Mormon hid! shit - Roy... - Washington! When Washington called me I was younger than you. You think I said... 'Aw fuck no I can't go I got two fingers up my asshole and a little moral nosebleed to boot' When Washington calls you, my pretty young punk friend, you go or you can go fuck yourself sideways 'Cause the train has pulled out of the station, and you are out, nowhere, out in the cold Fuck you, Mary Jane, get outta here - Just let me... - Explain? Ephemera. You broke my heart. Explain that. Explain that I love you. Roy. There's so much that I want to be... what you see in me I want to be a participant in the world, in your world, Roy, I want to be capable of that I've flied, really I have, but I can't do this Not because I don't believe in you, but because I believe in you so much In what you stand for, at heart, the order, the decency. I would give anything to protect you But there are laws I can't break. It's too ingrained. It is not me There's enough damage I've already done Maybe you were right, maybe I'm dead You're not dead, boy, you're a sissy You love me, that's moving, I'm moved. It's nice to be loved I warned you about her, didn't I, Joe? But you don't listen to me. Why? Because you say Roy is smart and Roy's a friend but Roy... well, he isn't nice And you wanna be nice. Right? A nice, nice man You know what my greatest accomplishment was, Joe. In my life... ...what I am able to look bad! on and be proudest of? And I have helped make presidents and unmake them, and mayors... ...and more goddamn judges than anyone in NYC ever, and several million dollars, tax-free And what do you think means the most to me? You ever hear of Ethel Rosenberg? - Huh, Joe, huh? - Well, yeah, I guess I... Yes Yes. Yes. You have heard of Ethel Rosenberg. Maybe you even read about her in the history books If 'wasn't for me, Joe... ...Ethel Rosenberg would be alive today, writing some personal-advice column for it is. magazine She isn't. Because during the trial, Joe, I was on the phone every day, talking with the judge - Roy... - Every day, doing what I do best... ...talking on the telephone, making sure that timid Yid nebbish on the bench did his duty to America, to history That sweet unprepossessing woman, two kids, boo-hoo-hoo, reminded us all of our little Jewish mamas She came this dose to getting life. I pleaded till I wept to put her in the chair Me. I did that. I would have fucking pulled the swim if they'd have let me Why? Because I fucking hate traitors. Because I fucking hate communists Was it legal? Fuck legal. Am I a nice man? Fuck nice They say terrible things about me in The Nation. Fuck The Nation They say terrible things about me in The Nation. Fuck The Nation You want to be nice, or you want to be effective? Make the law, or subject to it? Choose. Your wife muse. A week from today, she'll be back She knows how to get what she wants. Maybe I ought to send her to Washington - I don't believe you - Gospel You can't possibly mean what you're saying Roy, you were the Assistant United States Attorney on the Rosenberg case Ex-parte communication with the judge during the trial would be... Censurable, at least, probably conspiracy and in a case that resulted in execution, it's... What? Murder? - You're not well is all - What do you mean, not well? Who's not well? - You said... - No I didn't. I said what? - Roy, you have cancer - No I don't - You told me you were dying - What the fuck are you talking about, Joe? I never said that. I'm in perfect health. There's not a goddamn thing wrong with me Shake? It's OK that you hurt me because I love you, baby Joe. That's why I'm so rough on you Prodigal son. The world will wipe is dirty hands all over you - It already has, Roy - Now go I'll always be here, waking for you What did you want from me? What was all this? What do you want, treacherous ungrateful little... Transgress a little, Joseph There are so many laws. Find one you can break Ah... Andy! Andy! Get in here! Andy! Who the fuck are you? The new nurse? AW, fuck. Ethel - You don't look good, Roy - Well, Ethel. I don't feel good But you lost a lot of weight. That suits you. You were heavy bad! then. Zaftig, mit hips I haven't been that heavy since 1960. We were all heavier bad! then, before the body thing started Now I look like a skeleton. They stare The shits really hit the fan, huh, Roy? Well the fun's just started What is this, Ethel, Halloween? You trying to scare me? Well you're wasting your time. I'm scarier than you any day of the week So beat it, Ethel. Boon! Better dead than red Somebody trying to shake me up? From the throne of God in Heaven... ...to the belly of Hell, you can all fuck yourselves and then go jump in the lake Because I'm not afraid of you or death or hell or anything - Be seeing you soon, Roy. Julius sends his regards - Yeah, well send this to Julius - You're a very sick man, Roy - Oh God... Andy! He doesn't hear you, I guess. We should call the ambulance Ah, buttons! Sum things they got now - What do I dial, Roy? - 911 It sings! La la la... Yes, you should please send an ambulance to the home of Mr Roy Cohn, the famous lawyer Beats me. A pain in his gut. Bad. A bad pain - What's the address, Roy? - 244 East 87th 244 East 87th Street. No apartment number, he's got the whole building My name? Ethel Greenglass Rosenberg Me? No I'm not related to Mr Cohn. An old friend - They said a minute - I have all the time in the world - You're immortal - I'm immortal, Ethel I have forced my way into history. I ain't never gonna die History is about to clack wide open. Millennium approaches Tonight's the night. Are you excited? Tonight She comes. The Daughter of Light Lumen. Phosphor. Fluor. Candle Tidings and trailings of fire and... Look. Garlic A mirror. Holy Water. A crucifix Fuck off! Get the fuck out of my room! Go! - How hard is your pintle, then? - My what? Stiffer than it's ever been, your pintle? I bet it's standing straighter than... - I have no idea what you're... - Your pike, your plough... I order you to leave. I command you I didn't invite you. I order you to vanish. Begone! Avaunt! It's a bit late for that. Tonight She arrives fight through the roof No! I don't want her here. Or you. Or... Oh, for pity's sake. What are you doing to him? Newt. I'm heralding. What does it look like? At least I arrived on lime He's meant to be jubilating, rejoicing. And look at him, just look at him - He's shrieking in tenor - I'm not shrieking I do apologize for my tardiness, but I'm having a bit of trouble with the clasp What is it you want? - Hard as a hickory knob, I'll bet - We all tumesce when they approach We wax full, like moons - Dance - Dance? Stand up, damnit, give us your hands, dance! Listen... Delightful sound. Care to dance? Please leave me alone, please just let me sleep Ah, he wants someone familiar. A partner who knows his steps - Close your eyes. Imagine... - I don't... Hush. Close your eyes Now open them - Lou - Dance with me I can't, my leg, it hurts at night. Are you a ghost, Lou? No. Just spectral. Lost to my self Sitting all day on cold park benches wishing I could be with you Dance with me, babe Hah. Now I see why he's got no children. He's a sodomite Oh be quiet, you medieval gnome, and let them dance I'm not interfering, I've done my bk. Hooray, hooray, the Messenger's come Now I'll be blowing off. I don't like it here The twentieth century. Oh dear, the world has gotten so terribly, terribly old Oh don't come in here, don't come in. Louis! No! My name is Prior Walter, I am the scion of an ancient line, I am abandoned No. My name is Prior and I live here and now, and... In the dark, the Recording Angel opens is hundred eyes... ...and snaps the spine of the Book of Life I'm talking nonsense. No more mad scene, hush - Do you know the story of Lazarus? - Lazarus? - Lazarus. I can't remember what happens, exactly - I don't... Well, he was dead, Lazarus, and Jesus breathed life into him. He brought him bad! from death - Come here often? - No Yes. Yes Bad! from the dead - You believe that really happened? - I don't know anymore what I believe This is quite a coincidence. Us meeting I followed you. From work. I followed you here You followed me. You probably saw me that day in the washroom... ...and thought, There's a sweet guy, sensitive, tries for friends in trouble - Yes - You thought maybe I'll cry for you - Yes - Well I fooled you. Crocodile tears. Nothing - What are you doing? Don't do that - Sorry. I'm sorry I'm... just not... I think, if you touch me, your hand might fall off or something Worse things have happened to people who have touched me Please. Oh, boy... Can I... I... want... to touch you. Please. Can I please just touch you... here? I'm going to Hell for doing this Big deal. You think it could be any worse than New York City? - Come on - Where? - Home. With me - This makes no sense. I mean I don't know you - Likewise - And what you do know about me you don't like - The Republican stuff? - Yeah, well for starters - I don't not like that. I hate that - So why on earth should we... Strange bedfellows. I don't know. I never made it with one of the damned before Plus I would really rather not have to spend tonight alone - I'm a pretty terrible person, Louis - Lou No, I really really am. I don't think I deserve being loved There? See? We already have a lot in common That sound, that sound, it... What is that, like birds or something, like a really big bird. I'm frightened. I... No! No fear, find the anger, find the anger My blood is dean, my brain is fine, I can handle pressure I am a gay man and I am used to pressure, to trouble, I am tough and strong and... Oh. Oh my goodness. I... Ooohhhh... I'm hot, I'm so hot Aw Jeez, what is going on here. I must have a fever, I... Oh please! Oh please! Something's coming in here I'm scared, I don't like this at all, something's approaching and I... God almighty. Very Steven Spielberg Greetings, Prophet The Great Work begins. The Messenger has arrived