foodval.com - stop by if you're interested in the nutritional composition of food --- - Gary Brewer. - Holly Brewer. No relation... yet. Trevor Morehouse. No relation... yet. Three certainties in life: best friends, true love, and rock, paper, scissors. Morning, guys. Rise and shine. 'Scuse me. This is my acceptance letter to the Rock, Paper, Scissors World Championships. There's gonna be media from all over the world. Um, Russia, and Norway... - And Canada. Eh? I even heard Timbuktu News is gonna be there. Can you believe that? Timbuktu. Holly, Timbuktu isn't real. Yeah, it is - I read it somewhere. - Really? - Mm-hmm. - Africa. Whoa. We have, uh, 4 Canadian provinces represented, 26 U.S. states represented; we have a national champion coming from Norway, a national champion from Australia, a national champion from New Zealand; uh, we have a team coming from the Cayman Islands... Picture this: people are everywhere, camera bulbs are flashing, everybody's cheering, the media swarms me, they hand me the check for 10 Gs, and the media's all sticking microphones in my face, and they're like, "So Gary, tell us, how does it feel "to be the greatest rock, paper, scissors champion in the history of the entire world ever?" Awesome, Timbuktu. Awesome. To say it simply, I'd say know your opponent. Uh, it's about being able to profile another player very, very quickly. Um, and that means you need play against a lot of different people. Uh, nobody can practice by playing against the same group of people over and over and over again. You're just not gonna get anywhere, because you don't know who you're gonna be pitted up against - it's a randomized positioning at most tournaments. Uh, so, you know, you might be put up against the Norwegian champion, or you might be put against somebody just off the street. Your ability to spot that and spot what that person's tells are right away, uh, is really the hallmark of a good player. So, as you may or may not be aware, Doug and Graham Walker, the founders of the RPS Tournament, wrote a book called... The Official Rock, Paper, Scissors Strategy Guide. And don't get us wrong, the book is amazing. - Superb, really. - Yes. But when Holly and I were going through it, we noticed that there was some stuff that was missing. So... Tada! - We wrote our very own book. "The Way of the Tosser, "by Gary and Holly Brewer, no relation." - Yet. - Exactly. Well, we put in some really neat strategies and stuff. And yeah, a lot of stuff like, for example, nobody ever talks about the importance of wrist work. But when you think about it, the wrist is what attaches your hand to your arm, or "jambre." So we dedicated a whole section to the wrist workouts. Yeah, we did a lot of stuff, and we were actually thinking about putting a section in it that had some sort of, like, spring contraption, and it could open up to a wrist workout - so you'd actually be getting a wrist workout as you were opening up the wrist workout. It's a double entendre. Yeah. And there'd be lots of pop-outs - like this, for example. - Scissors. Holly made that. - That's scissors. We're gonna have pop-outs all through it, too. And, um, read the quote at the first... - Oh yeah. This is... I tried to dictate it, but Holly wrote it 'cause she's much better at that than I am. "The way of the tosser: "the conviction and continuous compulsion to toss against everything and anything at any given time." That's me. I'm a tosser. I use alliterations. I don't even know what to say. I'm constantly tossing. I toss in the shower, I toss when I wake up, I toss when I'm reading the paper, I'd toss if I was walking a dog, or if I was in a cemetery or a cell block or something - I would toss all the time. I mean, I toss against friends or foe. I mean, it doesn't even matter if Holly's around. It's true. I catch Gary tossing all the time - even behind my back. Sometimes we'll be having a serious discussion, and I look over at him - there he is, just tossing away. I think I might have a problem. ♪ I toss, I turn ♪ We toss in turn We wrote that a year after our first-year anniversary. - Yep. - Remember the night we met? - Yeah. Yeah, yeah. - He was wearing this black Maiden shirt. Yep. And you were wearing a really nice red thing. - I think you mean my shirt. - Yeah, yeah, your shirt. Oh, that was blue. It was blue. - That's what I meant. That's what I meant. Gary found me sitting in a ditch singing Silent Night, like in the First World War. The official theory of the World RPS Society is that it dates to around the 18th century, in Japan, where it's know as jankenor janken-pon, uh, depending on where you're from. It's been documented through cave drawings and pottery-making that the early homo sapiens used a form of rock, paper, scissors - except they used club... stone, and fire. So I used to sell hubcaps on the side of the road. And this one morning, I show up to work and there's this guy slumped and slouched against all my 1976 Pinto caps. The little puny guy was Trevor. Yeah, and he was dressed up in this weird, like, military outfit, all, like, ripped up, and he had a giant helmet with these weird tinfoil antenna things on it, and he was, like, totally spaced out. And I was like, "Hey, man. How are you?" And he was like, "Ah..." Like, he was singing and stuff. Oh Trevor, I can just imagine you squished up there - like, "Trevor phone home," eating Reese's Pieces and stuff. Ooh! Priceless. So anyway, it turns out he was totally anemic. It turns out he was totally amnesiac. He had "amne-zee-ah." Remember? No. I do. We presume they were thrown... like this. I eventually remembered my name and stuff, but I still can't remember where I'm from or who my parents are. Or to put the toilet seat down. Yeah. That too. Club could bat stone, and stone could put out the fire, and, of course, a fire can burn the club - whoosh! Yes. The game has deep roots. So, Holly's parents were out of town, and Trevor and me were like, "Hey Hol, can we borrow your VW camper van?" 'Cause her parents had a really nice one, and we really wanted to borrow it. And Holly was like, "Yeah, sure. No problem." - You were gonna cup-a-fart me. - No, I wasn't. What's a cup-a-fart? It's when you cup your hand, and then you fart in it, and then you can throw it in someone's face. Gary was gonna fart in my face. Anyways, the point is, we got the VW camper van, and we headed down to the sand pits. And, uh, yeah, the tire fire was huge. And there was tons of people there drinking and throwing tons of tires and stuff on the fire. And we didn't have any tires, so what we brought was hubcaps - 'cause I had lots of hubcaps - and we were flinging those on there, and we were, like, playing with the hubcaps and stuff. - Playing Frisbee. - Yeah. Um, but then, long story short, um, I was going for a long bomb over the fire. And Trevor was throwing it to me, and he tried to put too much power on it with his hand, and he overcompensated, and he flung it right to his side. And he hit a chick in the face with the hubcap. - Knocked out all of her teeth. One of her teeth hit me in the chinbone. So of course, the guys she's with immediately start trying to jump Trevor, and then they start trying to jack all the tires off the VW camper van. So, you know, I had to get in there, and I had to start trying to kick some ass, you know? - Which was so stupid. - Yeah, but... how was I supposed to know the entire team was there? They punched his nuts a lot. They had my legs open in this giant flying V, and they kept doing this, like, rat-a-tat-tat thing, and it was, like, flapping a lot. Luckily, the first guy kicked them right up and in, so basically they were just kicking empty sacks. Yeah, that's really, really good, because then it was just like sack punishment - it was more like a... But, um, the point is, after they were done with all the... puh! After they were done with all the sack punishment, they picked me up and they threw me in the bushes, and I landed on top of, um, this drunken bum, who turned out to be none other than the rock, paper, scissors legend... Finnegan O'Reilly. And, just like that, my life had changed forever. But it did take 2 weeks for the second one to drop. So I got really worried, and I got Gary to jump up and down on one leg, and I would pat them a lot. - Yeah. - It was a pretty scary time. And now it's, um, it's sort of squarish, on the bottom. It's so gross. Yeah. I took Gary on as a goddamn pupil. Stupid punk landed right on top of me. Blathering like a goddamn baby, he was. He got beer all over me. I was trying to sleep, goddamnit! Finnegan immediately taught me that fighting doesn't solve anything, but RPS is definitive and "unargabubble." Unarguable. So basically, now he tosses before he punches. Non-violence. Which makes me really happy. Me too. It's really... safe. I first got into photography 'cause I wanted to take a picture of the air at the exact right time when I would get a visual confirmation of the invisible ghost that haunted me through my childhood. Finnegan was the first official player to get an RPS trading card. And when Gary wins the championship he's gonna get his very own card. Oh, definitely. So this stuff is sort of like my arsenal - just some things I keep in my room. Helps me, you know, clear-cut through all the fake emotional stuff that lives up in the old ticker, and as well I can use it for good-luck sacrifices, that sort of thing, when I have to. First of all... we have rock. Rock is like the moon, except smaller. And... there's no dust on it. And it doesn't smile at you from miles away. Next up, we have paper. Paper. You see how my fingers are really closely together, and if I go like this, no air passes through them whatsoever? And this is really serious, too: if your thumb's out like this, you're out - finito bambino. If you're like this, it's fine. I really like paper because it's smooth and it's really sleek, and basically, if you go sideways, you're see-through. Can you imagine being 2-D? Last little "knickknack paddy- whack give-a-dog-a-bone" is my personal favorite, my power throw, my power item - boom - scissors. And let's make something clear here: these two digitals, they're down. Little green thumb? You're not gardening. Stick it down. You'll get disqualified - I'm telling you, I've seen it happen. And it's like this: the V, baby. And it's like this: uno, dos, "cinqs." Gary's a goddamned idiot. Gary is spot-on. You can only imagine how excited we were when we found out we were living next door to a famous sports celebrity. Okay, here we go: the chump factor. Basically, the chump factor is a factor that explains the suckiness of people with RPS, and how these sucky people still win. It's like a whole out-of-sync thing. It's like, if I'm tossing like that, they're tossing like this, or they're tossing like that, or they're tossing like... like, they'll throw it too much or something. This is a photo of Gary when he's really, really angry. As you can see, he's probably just lost to a chump. The person that embodies the chump factor to the chumpth degree - like, chump thousand and 20 - is Baxter Pound. He is the ultimate... of all chumps. I'm so excited about this whole documentary thing we got going here. I'm actually a huge doc fan. Um, I saw... March of the Penguins. Yeah? You know that? So... I saw it in the theatre, so... Huge fa... Oh! Madelena. I'm just gonna stop by. I always have my 'dogs here. Hello. He basically looks like a really happy skinny elf, with a big head and a small body. Mmm! Mhm. That's really fantastic. Thank you. - So Baxter has his own card, you know. - What? - Yeah, he gave it to me. You wanna see it? - No. Yeah, it's a pretty big deal. But, I mean... Who can argue with stats like that, right? He looks sort of funny. This is really professional. I have this Polaroid sequence I'm working on where this one drives a Ferrari all around the Isle of Corfu, Italy. Where are they going? To a hotel. I don't have the hotel yet, though. It costs, like, 3 times as much as the Ferrari. Gotta be careful, 'cause, you know... Holly. It's okay, though. I got a key. Even just looking at them gives me the heebie-jeebies. Ha! Whoa, eh? Check these suckers out. Total good luck and good karma. I suffer from what is called sicosnipophobia - the fear of scissors. I used to use them to cut my dog Rufus' hair. He was a Newfoundland wolf dog. Rufus had incredible form. He used to lift up his paw and wag it right in front of your face. And Gary taught him some really incredible intimidation tactics. So this one time, Trevor and Rufus were tossing for shotgun. The only barrier to rock, paper, scissors is really having a minimum of 3 fingers on one hand: as long as you fit those requirements, then theoretically you carry everything you need to play rock, paper, scissors. And I told Rufus to throw a paper. And he got Trevor on a late rock. So Rufus hopped up in the cab of the truck, and we went off, and Trevor was in the back. I used to lift up his ears and flap them up and down so he looked like a flying dog. And I'd say, "Watch out for the incredible 'taw posser!'" I mean... "paw tosser." He really loved that. We got sideswiped by a cement truck. Passenger side was totaled, and Rufus died on impact. This is Rufus before the accident. This is Rufus after the accident. Ugh! I haven't... thrown paper since, you know. Just out of respect. After the goddamn dog died, Gary refused to throw paper. You know, training a guy who refused to throw paper, it's like... training a retard to tap dance. As soon as Gary wins, we're gonna find a really special place to spread Rufus' ashes, to thank him for his supernatural guidance, and also to thank him for not taking over Gary's body in revenge. Yeah. Gary, have you seen the plunger? Oh! Sorry! Holly, I'm sorry. I should have put the sign up. We have a sign. I'm sorry! The Rufus shears are the only scissors in the house. Yep. - Well, how do you cut things? Oh... An X-Acto knife. Next thing I know, this guy's whizzing to other dimensions. "The zone." This is our mental preparation. Okay, everybody has to be really quiet, 'cause the slightest sound will knock him right out of it. It's sort of like a transcendence. Yeah, it's like a lucid cosmic journey where I enter a whole new land, and it's full of pyramids and deserts and, like, bleeding cubes in the sky. And he sometimes talks in tongues, but without using his tongue. Skills. It's like peyote, except natural. Yeah. What I do is I coax him into it. I help him get deeper into the zone. Oh, sorry. We almost forgot the music. Yes. This music is from the Paranormal Society of Ontario. Are you ready? - Wait. Okay. Shh. Hello? Hello? Hi. Hey, Little S... Hey, Little Stacey. Yeah, um... Okay, well, why don't we meet in the backyard? Perfect. Yeah, I'll be there in, uh... 10 minutes? - Ow. - Yeah, it's good for me. Okay, bye. I forgot to unplug the phone. I saw your great-grandmother riding a giant praying mantis. - Again? - Yeah. She says hi. - You landed on my head. - I'm really sorry. Use your mind to read my mind. Uh... paper? Read my thoughts. Scissors. Know my soul. Rock. Yes. Good for you. Sometimes I space out and I'll, like, randomly toss right in front of Little Stacey. And I'm like, "Gary, that's your student." I know, I know. And I'm like, "Oops." Like, the other day, I had Little Stacey all blindfolded up, and then I caught myself totally just tossing right in her face. I'm like, "Yeah, I wish you would toss in my face." Now, what would you most like to be? A rock, a paper, or a scissors? You first, dear. No, you go ahead. No, no, no. Women and ladies first. Sweetheart. Um... A rock... - Paper! I wanna be paper. I wasn't choosing. I was just... A rock, paper, or scissors. - You asked her to choose, and she chose: she chose rock. I chose paper. Paper covers rock. I won. I wasn't choosing, honey. I was asking him what the options were all over again. He asked your choice, and you said what you wanted to say, and I said what I wanted to say, and if this was a real competition, I would win. Scissors. She can't pick scissors after she picked rock. Real player. Crappy player. Legend. Chump. - That's my card. - Oh yeah? Yeah. - That's nice. - Yeah, that's me: Baxter Pound. - That's nice. - Yeah. That's for you. - Thank you. - You're very welcome. You know what? Wait right here. Wait right here. Be right back. One sec! Uh, it's not necessarily about being the best player, which many people often think it is. It's often about handling the pressure. - Oh! Not so tough now, are you, Baxter boy, huh? You and your little stupid card. You're not so tough now, Mr. Chumper, The Chump... the Chump-Man. Me and Rufus are snipping you up. Fine grade, fine grade, fine grade. Paper snipper, paper snipper. Snipping up, snipping up. Yeah. You know, the most common thing that you'll hear people saying is that random is the best strategy. And that's actually a big load of nonsense, because humans are actually terrible at playing randomly. Chance has nothing to do with it. Nothing. It's been proven that the likelihood of 2 people tossing the same series of tosses in a consecutive timeframe is less than 15%, 97% of the time. If both players are randomizing, then you're gonna win 1/3, lose 1/3, and tie 1/3 of the time. And really, that's not very strategic. It's basically the theory of numbers 3. It's a magical number, like our trio. This is gonna be a good one. Yeah, Rufus used to run away for, like, days at a time. He'd go and he'd roll around in a bunch of cow patties and dead fish and stuff - he loved doing that. - It was his perfume. - Yeah, it was his cologne. - He had a really small tail. - You know what this is? Documentation of fallopian infertility. Hmm? Wrote that myself. Did it at work. - The flotation thingy? - No. No, Lloyd says that, but it's not Linda, it's Lloyd. It has to do with his soldiers. You know, the slimy ones? Oh yeah, it's the sperm-shooting thing. Ew. Gary, you did not just say that on camera. I'm really sorry. My blanks are fully loaded. Well, I heard one time that there was this couple that had the same problem, and what they did is they tried this, like, Eastern mysticism, uh, type of stuff. And what happened is it depended on which way they faced when they did it. Gary. Well, I mean, it's not just that. I mean, it was like the whole, like, feng shui type of thing - like yin yang feng shui... type of thing. Anyway... - That's so bad. Yeah, well, I heard they had triplets. Oh, my God, that's so cute. Yeah. It's miraculous. This amulet protects me from the ghost of Rufus. Sometimes, I wake up in the middle of the night, and he's sitting on the end of my bed. I know how much the ashes mean to Gary, though. So I don't say anything. ♪ I toss for fun ♪ I toss for love ♪ I toss just because I have to ♪ - Oh, I loves y'all. - I love ya. I love you. I love you. - I love ya. - I love ya. - Loves y'all. - I love ya. - I love you. Oh, I like this one. What is that? A bird? It's your coffee mug. Oh. I really like it. It's a mug! Do you wanna know why I don't compete anymore? One year, I was really close to making the qualifier to the championships. I threw paper. My opponent threw scissors. He snipped me. That's just bad sportsmanship. You can't snip. It's like throwing it in your face. Now I can't compete anymore. And that's why I hate scissors. So I just cheer Gary on. Every serious tosser has a power toss. If you don't, you are not a pro. And I find it really interesting, because a person's power toss describes a lot about them - like, you can really learn a lot about a person by what their power toss is. What does it say about you? When you start playing it with other people, you realize that the game is actually much... very secondary to the gamesmanship of the game, and that's basically how you play your opponent. Rock, paper, scissors is so crazy and difficult 'cause it's different everywhere. For example, in tournament play, it's 1, 2, 3, toss, whereas in street play, it's 1, 2, and you toss on the third one. So it, like, makes it totally different. Like, here's an example: here we go with the street toss. No. Wait, what'd I... Shit. Um, crap. Sorry. Um, here we go with the... I'll do a street toss for you. 1, 2, 3... 1, 2... See? It's hard because you get confused. I always do - 'cause I'm in tournaments so much, maybe - I always do the tournament stuff first. But it's like 1, 2, boom. There. See? You see how hard that is? I'm a pro. I'm a pro, and I still get confused at this. And then you got the tournament. But that's just me showing off a bit. I don't always do that. But I got this one, too, if you wanna show off. That's the power pump. The power pumper is different, though: you can't use that. You can't use that in street or anything 'cause it's like a pumping motion, like... Like, that's ridiculous. - Yeah! - Whoo! - Yes! Nice one, Trevor. That's great. Wow. Basically, I invented a whole new style of rock, paper, scissors, which could reinvent, um, a whole new game as we know it. It's called "karateoss." I taught this one how to karateoss. She's pretty much the only one I could teach, because she's the only one with posable joints. You see, rock, paper, scissors is simple yet definitive. Karate is forceful, yet it's non-violent. And I wanted to create a name that would embody both these factors, you know? Yeah. It's like Attack Of the 50-foot Woman: of course she's going to attack. She feels uncomfortable with her surroundings. - Exactly. She can only throw paper. And her form is pretty bad. It would never pass in a competition scenario. But nobody's perfect, right? I'll get it! Hi, guys! Come on in. Holly, love the hair. - Thank you. - You look lovely. Come on in. Look who's here! Look who's here! My favorite day of the week is Wednesday nights, because every Wednesday night we have a karaoke party at Lloyd and Linda's. And this karaoke guy comes and he hosts it. Oh, I wonder who that could be. Hey-hey! Good evening, everyone, and welcome to Lloyd and Linda's Wednesday night karaoke party extravaganza. I see some familiar faces out there tonight. Holly, love the hair. But for those of you that don't know me, my name is Chris, and I will be your host for this evening's events. Let's get this party started. ♪ When she was young ♪ She dreamed of meeting... I do a lot of door-to-door work, but Holly and Gary are the best. It's like watching Lionel Richie and Debbie Gibson rip it up - finally. I really love when Gary sings. It reminds me of the first time we met. ♪ When I got home The other day ♪ ♪ I played against A really good ♪ ♪ Tosser Yeah, give me that one. ♪ Skee-bop! One more time. Ready? And... ♪ Skee-bop! ♪ Skee-bop! Yeah. ♪ If I were ♪ A celebrity ♪ I would do everything ♪ Just wait and see ♪ If I was ♪ A celebrity ♪ I... Yeah! Oh no, I never mix business with pleasure. You know, for me, RPS and tossing is a serious thing. Boom! Tossing dynamite against a very serious player is basically like tossing a big plopper on a priest. It's not cool. You know, if something ever happened with that, I'd probably just take it cool. Dropped dynamite right on my food! You're a horrible man! You're a horrible man! Who are you?! - Shh. Who are you?! I can't breathe! I can't breathe! I can't breathe. I can't breathe. I can't breathe! I'm hyperventilating. ♪ I wake up with A little light on my face ♪ ♪ I look on over As you lie in your place ♪ ♪ The air is cool And we don't say a word... ♪ - Hey, Trev. - Hey, guys. How you feeling, sleepy head? I woke up with no clothes on and a peanut butter cookie stuck to my forehead. I took some really strange photos of myself. Here, let me see them. Oh, that one looks like a bird. Nice. I don't know what part of me that is. Sort of looks like the back of your knee. You know, I was thinking about it, and I don't know one time where it's legit to throw dynamite. Ever. Gary's just too good for his own good. Yeah. I knew this guy was coming with rock, but I don't throw paper - 'cause I can't throw paper... You have to throw paper, goddamnit. You only have 3 to choose from. So, you know, my head's saying one thing, my heart's saying another thing, and we go coo, coo, coo, conk, and I toss both at the same time. "The shocker." It shocked me. Yeah. I totally shocked myself. And, you know, I just hate that part, because all of a sudden now the names start... Yeah, it's so vindictive. "Shocks," "Shiggety Shocktail," "Shocker Mahoney," "Shocker McGillicuddy," "The Great White Shock," "The Yes Man..." Yeah. There's plenty more where they came from. Gets stuck in here, and you're done like your goddamn dinner. No, I haven't seen Finnegan in almost 6 months. But basically you still do, right? Well, yeah... As he puts it, I'm in a phase of my training where I have to, "go on my goddamn own and find my own goddamn way." Gary's not even allowed to call him anymore. - No. - Nothing. - No. It's really serious stuff. Yeah, I gave up on Gary. What was I supposed to do? I left the world of RPS a long time ago. Between you and me, what's happening in the sport today is a goddamn mockery. I should have taken that night at the tire fire for what it was: goddamn meaningless. I still have this. His playing card. He looks like an eggplant with a unibrow. "Uniplant." Taking on Gary was a careless drunken mistake. I know he only wants the best for me. Did you know Gary's competing in the world championships? This is the helmet I was wearing when Gary found me. Can you hear them now? Nope. How about now? Nope. Anything? Sort of. Okay, Little Stacey. Today I have a bit of a challenge for you: you're gonna have a one-off, no-holds-barred street match against an opponent that uses intimidation tactics. - Okay. - Okay? He's gonna be really big, he's gonna be really scary, and he's really gonna be in your face and stuff, but I don't want you to get too overwhelmed and scared, okay? But if you do, and if you feel like you're gonna be swallowed by a pit of scaredness, I just want you to yell our magic code word, and I'll make him disappear - what's our code word? - "Tosser." - That's my girl. Get ready. DARRYL!!! Okay, I don't want you letting this chump get in your face, Little Stacey. - I'll eat you, Little Stacey! - Poo on you! Okay, I want this clean, I want it legit. On 3. Ready? Toss! - Yah, ha, ha! You can never be upset with the scissors loss. And it gets really annoying, because people think, like, "Oh, yeah, anyone can toss, and it's like for indecisive people, or invalids, and..." - And blah, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. And, I mean, it's like saying to a clown, "Oh, you know, your job's so stupid, it's silly, and it's pointless." But until you actually paint your face with really bright colors, you really have no idea. Yeah. It was Wojek Smallsoa who once said, um, "To the beginner, the choices are few. To the expert, the choices are many." Mm-hmm. Trio of the Hands, 1962. You could write that down, if you want. And... fingernail clipper. Ootsie-la-li. Complete with reverse- action swivel notch. Made for clipping nails. We also have a cuticle cleaner, and we have a Loofah sea sponge nail massager, but they're in the shop. ♪ The air is cool And we don't say a word ♪ ♪ Only bumblebees ♪ And wind in the trees Can be heard ♪ ♪ In the lazy... You ever hear of the body snatchers? 'Cause that's what Baxter is. You find yourself a bird... you feed her one of these: "Being your slave, what should I do but tend upon the hours and times of your desire?" And then the chick just melts, and then - fuh! Huh? They seem nice on the outside, but on the inside they're really an alien that wants to eat your soul. I mean, he seems nice to me, but that's the point, right? Gary pretends not to like him, but I know he does deep down. It's basically just that male competitive thing. Holly? She's my love. That girl, she's smoking hot. She's the most beautiful girl I've ever seen in the world. I would do her before anyone else. But Shocky McGillicuddy's got his fingers up in that honey pot right now. Have you seen his form? It's totally atrocious. - His form's very unique. - And his face is like... - It is sort of like that. - It is. Hey, you ready? I want you guys to get this, okay? Make sure this is in the film. All right, here we go. 1, 2, 3, toss! That's the pound-down, Baxter-style. That's my power throw. I gotta go. ♪ I toss for you I toss for life ♪ ♪ We can toss forever together ♪E ♪ But then we better win This fight to the masses ♪ - Are you guys still rolling? If my estimations are correct, by the year 2043, after the bomb drops, the rock, paper, scissors will be the official currency in the nomadic regions of Siberia - which by that time will be quite tropical. ♪ ...Gary and Baxter's breed ♪ ♪ Trying to succeed In this system of greed ♪ ♪ Is it skill or is it speed Or is it luck or is it need? ♪ ♪ Some have their own Training tactics ♪ ♪ Others go with practice You guys, cut. That's not part of it. ♪ Trevor's taking Polaroid pictures ♪ ♪ Like fictacious people Like Barbie dolls ♪ ♪ Rock, paper, scissors Rock, paper, life ♪ I need a break. ♪ Rock, paper, scissors Rock, paper, life ♪ ♪ Rock, paper, scissors Rock, paper, life ♪ This is where it gets hardcore. ♪ Rock, paper, scissors Rock, paper, life ♪ ♪ Soon enough The tournament to begin ♪ ♪ Then the time will lobotomate Gary's left hand ♪ ♪ Annihilate the Chump And dialate the lump ♪ ♪ Posing in shock That is, you'll get rocked ♪ ♪ I toss in the shower And I toss at church ♪ ♪ I'll toss with the fool But the friends come first ♪ ♪ I toss even if all... - Pound down! ♪ Make everyone hit the ground Like Baxter I will pound ♪ ♪ Speaking for Gary he has A chance to be victorious ♪ ♪ As long as the trio from New-Brunswick ends up glorious ♪ ♪ Cruising 9 to 77 LTD... M When you rest, you never rest the arm. Never rest the arm. A chocolate bar... made out of leaves will cost 2 rocks. A book can cost anywhere from 3 to 300 pieces of paper. It all depends on the size of the book and the author. - Ready, Chico? - Yeah. Aah! Aah-aah! And my retainer, just in case. ♪♪ ♪ Yeah, yeah ♪ Hey ♪ Don't get up, baby ♪ You won't forget my ♪ Name ♪ Tied to this hospital bed ♪ I've become A second-last chance ♪ ♪ Another last chance Tell me why ♪ ♪ You're still waiting ♪ Here at all ♪ My fading memory ♪ And I, I wouldn't ♪ Trade it for the world ♪ There's a place we can hide ♪ Always ♪ There's a place we can hide ♪ Always ♪ Wait ♪ I'll catch up someday ♪ You can bring me down So low, up so ♪ ♪ High ♪ Brighter than These city lights ♪ ♪ But I swear We're getting out ♪ ♪ Time's running out Tell me why ♪ ♪ You're still waiting ♪ Here at all ♪ My fading memory ♪ And I, I wouldn't ♪ Trade it ♪ For the world ♪ There's a place we can hide ♪ Always ♪ But we're still Young tonight ♪ ♪ So let's get sad Let's get high ♪ ♪ Oh, we're still Young tonight ♪ ♪ So let's get sad And tell me why... ♪ That's how you train, baby. This concludes our training day. You can't go down the bobsled run just for showing up at the Olympics, but in rock, paper, scissors, if you register, you can potentially be the next world champion. So picture this: it's tomorrow night, I just won the RPS tournament, I'm up on the stage, there's camera bulbs flashing, media everywhere, people screaming, "Gary, Gary, we love you, we love you!" The sort of C-level celebrity that comes from being a world champion of rock, paper, scissors means you have to be a bit approachable, you have to have a bit of media savvy, uh, you have to be able to handle the interview to a certain extent. I'm just standing there... and tschh! I get down on one knee, take out this, and boom. Boom. Gary and I talk about it all the time. When we get married, I'm gonna wear a paper gown. And when the designers see how stiff and pure I look, they're gonna go orangutan. The tree huggers are gonna be all over that shit. I look her straight in the eye, and I speak the most important 5 words that I speak in my entire life: "Holly, will you please marry me and stay with me forever until we die?" Then, it's done. Perfect proposal. Is that real? Yeah. Nice ring, eh? Buongiorno. Welcome to Vito & Tito's Pumpkin Patch. Vito, and this is my compatriot, Tito. Where'd you get the money for this? Uh... well... Gary knows: Vito and Tito give you a loan, you pay us back - principal plus a personal incentive - and everybody's happy. And if he don't pay, well, then we talk. You're smashing a pumpkin! Let's take a walk. Take a walk, you son of a... Dear Rufus, please guide me wisely tomorrow night, and allow me to swiftly kick the asses of all my... Asses and faces. My dad taught me that. Continue. And allow me to swiftly kick the asses and faces of all my noble opponents. And thank you, Baby Jesus, for shining your ever-loving light on our ever-loving asses and faces. And Rufus... please sleep with Gary and Holly tonight. I've had enough. - Amen. - Amen. Amen. It's funny, you know, 'cause... like, you spend your whole life getting ready for something sometimes, and you think you're all set, and then all of a sudden the day comes, and the doubts set in. I mean, not big doubts or whatever, but they set in - you can't help it. I mean, I owe TV huge. And if I don't win, I... I don't know what I'm gonna do. 'Cause, I mean, I love Holly so much but... if I don't win tomorrow night, I can't marry her. She deserves a winner, you know? Not a loser. Dear Baby Jesus, please help Gary to remember to use his heart, and not to throw the shocker. And if you're with Rufus right now, please help him let Gary throw paper if he has to. Asses and faces. Amen. - Oh! Ah! Put it out! - All right. Ah! Oh God! I got it, guys. My shoelace is on fire. Ah! Oh! I twisted my ankle. Gary? Everybody's okay. Everybody's fine. Let me see. Trevor, we need a band-aid! I had a lucid dream last night where the master in the really tight kimono ripped my hands off. Oh. Well, that's okay, I think that just means, "Don't go with the physical. Just follow the spiritual." Okay, but then he ate my hands and started spitting paper bandages out of his mouth. Oh! Well that just means... That's a really good omen, actually. - Oh. That's good. - Mm-hmm. Hoo, hoo, hoo, hff! There's no goddamn way in the world he can win this thing without throwing paper. Ah! If he does, I'll eat that goddamn glass. ♪The competition ♪ Is here today ♪ Ooh! Ah! ♪ You gotta train Hard and tough ♪ ♪ To win the day ♪ And if you win You'll ask Holly ♪ ♪ To be your wife ♪ Uh-huh, uh-huh ♪ You're tossing for love ♪ You're tossing for your life ♪ Ooh ♪ Well, it's been Years since then ♪ ♪ But you can't forget ♪ Ooh! Ah! ♪ All those shattered dreams ♪ Must needs be met ♪ Ah! ♪ You can follow the code And tomorrow ♪ - Gary! - ♪ You'll be okay... ♪ Whoo! Ha ha! Hey, Shocks! Ha ha! Trev, how you doing? - Hey. - Hi, Baxter. - Ah! - Hmm. Shall I compare thee to a summer's day? God, you're beautiful. Hey, Gar. - Hey. Never gave you one of my, uh, playing cards. - No, you didn't. - There you go. Hey, you mind if I grab one of yours too? Or... Just kidding around with you. Don't worry, we'll be trading ourselves off soon enough, I'm sure. - Right, yeah. Hmm? Yeah? Anyways, gotta go. Lates, Trev. Lates. Time to go win me some RPS. Uh! Come on. Uh... I can't feel my hands. Okay, don't let him get to you. No, I can't... I can't feel my... I can't feel my hands. My hand, it's numb. I can't feel it. I can't feel... - Oh, my God. Okay, wait. Okay, no, just... You must be nervous. Just relax. No, I'm not nervous. No! I can't feel it! There's nothing in it! - Okay, just stop! Calm down. Anything? - No. Hit it. - Anything? - Hit it. Harder. Harder. Harder. Harder, harder! Hit it, hit it! Trevor! Trevor! Hit it! Hit it, man! Harder! Oh God! ♪There's a point ♪ To all this dreaming ♪ To every man ♪ His just desserts ♪ And every time ♪ I caught you leaving ♪ I had to dream awake ♪ I had to dream awake ♪ For every time ♪ I came home screaming ♪ Got sent away ♪ With no warmth at all ♪ I had to dream awake ♪ I had to dream awake ♪ There's a calling ♪ A calling, a calling ♪ To everyone ♪ Who lost something ♪ Who had to dream awake ♪ Who had to dream ♪ Awake ♪ To take us ♪ Under now ♪ Take us under ♪ Now ♪ There's a fight ♪ We're not conceding ♪ The words get mixed ♪ And the point is lost ♪ Where we had dream awake ♪ We had to dream awake ♪ To take us under now ♪ Take us under now ♪♪ ♪ There's a warning ♪ A warning, a warning ♪ To everyone... - Did I win? - Yeah, it's a clean sweep. Yeah! He's out! I got him! I got him. - Nice work. All right, let's get the winners here. Come forward, you guys. Hey, and that had nothing to do with me jinxing you! Oh! ♪ Cut the paper stone ♪ Use your mind ♪ Pretend you're all alone ♪ Leave it all behind ♪ Everybody's got a dream ♪ They're chasing ♪ Everybody's got a fear They're facing ♪ ♪ If you want to start a band It's in your hands ♪ You won my heart, Baxter! You won my heart. ♪ Cut the paper stone ♪ Use your luck - I need to be alone! ♪ Or you'll end up all alone ♪ ♪ A sitting duck - Gary! Gary! - Trevor, stop. ♪ Everybody's got a love They're hiding ♪ ♪ Everybody's got a ot a wave ♪ They're riding You'll reach that distant land ♪ ♪ It's in your hands ♪ A rusty pair of scissors ♪ A golden lock of hair ♪ Whatever works for you ♪ To get you there ♪ Cut the paper stone... Anybody who takes the game too seriously, takes the world championship too seriously, um, is making himself a prime candidate for mockery. This is not gonna be good. ♪ Everybody's got a war They're fighting ♪ - Gary? ♪ Everybody's got a song They're writing... ♪ Oh! Hey Gary, sorry about your loss. - Sorry, man. - Gary? Hey-hey, Shocky-ships! Brrr-ah! Wow, you drive fast. The light of the moon is eclipsed by your beauty tonight. We're in the dark right now - no light. Sorry. Hey, champ. Sorry about the whole limp factor back there. I mean, that's a real bummer for you, I know. But did you see my game tonight? The only person I lost to was the champion of the world! So what does that say about Baxter-Man? But I know you still lost, chump. Whoa. Listen up, chump. I'm a man that resolves my issues. So let's get this over with right now. Don't do it, Gary. It's a voodoo trap. - Here you go, babe. - Ugh. You and me, no-holds-barred, one-off street match, best out of one, winner takes Holly. - Takes what? - What? You heard me. This one's for Holly's love, buddy boy. But I don't love you, Baxter. You will. You deserve a real man. This is so stupid. The power in my hand is back. It's a sign from Rufus. I have to do this. Let's go, chump. - You ready? - Yeah, no holds barred... Hold it just one goddamn second. Hi. - Hi, Mr. O'Reilly. Holly. You're Finnegan O'Reilly! I thought... I thought you were dead. I'm a fellow cardholder. Keep it in your pants for just one second. You and me both know he's gonna throw rock. I don't think so, Finn. Gary, are you gonna let that goddamn stubborn blockhead of yours lose this thing? - Rufus isn't gonna let me down. - Goddamnit, Gary, will you throw paper? Just throw paper, goddamnit. - Please. It's Baxter. - Rufus won't let me down, guys. Goddamnit! Goddamnit! All right. I got this. - Ah, Jesus. - Let's go. All right. Goddamnit! 1, 2, 3, toss! Pound down! Oh-ho! You're goddamn hopeless! - Gary, you lost again. - Holly. - Sorry, Finn. - Let's go catch a celebratory drink, my love. - Nuppy-puppy! - Come on, I just won you. Suit yourself. Hey, Finnegan, how about it? Let's go get a drink, huh? Why not. Hey, why don't you superimpose your face on some of those? I don't mind. Ha ha! Holly, call me, okay? Go toss yourself! - Lates, Trev. - Lates, Devil's spawn. Loser. Finnegan? - Come on, Gary. - Let's go. - Finnegan! - I can't. Rufus let me down. - No. - No, he didn't. It's okay. Sorry you lost again, Gary. Vito and Tito took the ring back. They were really mad. Gary doesn't wanna tell Holly, so he told me to wait out here 'til we establish an alibi. It's already been 2 hours. I really need a tissue. All things considered, they were actually pretty easy on me. I was supposed to have... 5 whacks per hand, and I know on my right that... I know for a fact they only did 4 and a half, or 4. And I think on my left they only did, like... No, they did 7. But still, they were pretty easy. They took it easy, the last couple, so... ♪ ♪ You pull to the side Of the road ♪ ♪ Sleep as the rain Hits the windshield ♪ ♪ And the thunder does crack It's my very own playing card. ♪ You don't know Where you're going ♪ ♪ But you're hoping to see - I always wanted one. ♪ The lines on the road ♪ Look the same as they do In my dreams ♪ ♪ Then you wake up to see ♪ That the clouds, they... I actually have 137 wins, you know. Oh yeah. ♪ And you feel like you slept For three days ♪ ♪ But it was only three hours ♪ So it's back on the road And the gas tank is... ♪ Your charge card to the Flying Saucer Emporium? They're having a really huge blowout on all their moon rock rings. And I just cleared off my balance. Thanks, man. ♪ Just follow the sun Yes, the dream has begun ♪ ♪ It's been waiting for you To be done ♪ ♪ A long time ago Saw a little boy grow ♪ ♪ From the playground ♪ To life on the road It's okay. It's okay, man. ♪ Drive through The night... ♪M Can you guys leave for a minute, please? I don't like you seeing me like this. This is not me. Well... tonight's the big night. I'm pretty nervous. Actually, I'm sweating quite profusely. Wow. Everyone's gonna be here in a couple of hours. Well... here goes nothing. Sparing that Trevor doesn't get caught up in the booze and drugs and crazy orgies that consume most of my protégés, uh, he's got a, uh, long-lasting and artistically redefining career ahead of himself. Gretel came up to me, and she asked to see some pictures. And, well... that was it. This is unbelievable. Really? This seriously is, like, amazing. Yeah, Trevor would make an excellent father. Makes a woman wish she never got her tubes tied. I don't wanna have babies with Gretel. ♪ I toss for fun ♪ I toss for love ♪ I toss because I want to ♪ I would toss for you ♪ You could toss me too ♪ We can toss together forever ♪E ♪ And we'll toss - Toss ♪ ♪ Together For a long time ♪ ♪ Together for a Really long time ♪ ♪ Together for a really Really, really long time ♪ ♪ Let's ♪ Toss M You wanna toss for life? Bravo. Bravo! - Yay. - Bravo! Way to go, Gary. - Bravo. A genuine moon rock! It's a genuine moon rock. It's from the rock emporium. We're getting married! Trevor, that was the most beautiful song I've ever heard you play. Ah, thanks. Look at my ring! We're getting married. And I'm finally gonna get a paper gown. And Gary's gonna cut it and rip it, and then we're gonna recycle it, and I'm gonna be Holly Brewer! Brewer-Brewer... Gary sure was right about that "feng chewy" stuff. It's really potent. Blue and pink - who would have thought? They're not sure yet, but there are at least 5. We're gonna name them all after fruit, like Gwyneth and Chris. Oh, maybe I could just say, "Holly Brewer, yes relation," instead of "no relation." We're gonna get married in a temple. Go Buddha. Jesus never would have let us lose. I'm ghostwriting Finnegan's unauthorized autobiography. Yeah, we're going to open the goddamn eyes of those newfangled RPS freaks. - We're focusing heavily on old-school RPS strategies. - Damn straight. Mm-hmm, and juxtaposed with the poetical meditations of a great man beaten down by his own glory. What? Anyway, I'm planning to call it Goddamnit. Ripped, Sliced, Stoned: The Finnegan O'Reilly Story. Goddamnit. Whoa. Careful. See? Look how much better they are with scissors. Uh... Scissors? Use your mind to read my mind. Paper? Oh, my gosh. It took me 3 tries. High five! Ow, my face! I took all the wedding photos with my Polaroid. I'm living with Gretel now. She just got her tubes untied. ♪ I'm back again ♪ Like you said I would be ♪ You're an honest friend ♪ But it's all I ever see Bye, Rufus. ♪ You're back again Back again ♪ ♪ Coming out of the wave ♪ The cap of the wave He seemed bigger than that. Is there any more? Oh. - Yeah, there it is. Good. Just keep going. Good. Bye, buddy. Just the way he would have wanted it. Check this out. Oopsie. It's not so hard. Just gotta roll with the punches. Ready, Chico? - Born. Let's roll. ♪ Can you feel it In the air? ♪ See ya! ♪ Red sky ♪ ♪ What makes you think about it? Mind dry ♪ ♪ This time you'd better stop Thinking about the past ♪ ♪ And turn up to the future ♪ You'll be fine ♪ You dug deep inside And said goodbye ♪ ♪ So stop waiting For a savior to come ♪ ♪ Just get out and do it ♪ Just get out and do it ♪ Can you feel it now? - Gary Brewer. - Holly Brewer. No relation - yet. Trevor Morehouse. No relation - yet. This is hard. Oh, my God, is that what you're doing? You should... Gary Brewer. - It's the 20th. - Yeah, I know. Gary Brewer. - Holly... What are we gonna do? ♪ Would you Take a look around? ♪ ♪ Well, can you feel it now? ♪ Don't lose it He sleeps in a giant bean pod. My God. Cut! He sleeps in a giant bean... pod. He lives in a gi... Action! What? What? That's... Asses and faces. My dad taught me that. Continue. Trevor. - It was so good! - And Rufus... Please sleep with Gary and Holly tonight. I've had enough. Amen. - Keep it going. - Is it on? Are we recording? Oh. This is our new Rufus! Wedding present from Trevor. Look at him. He's already throwing paper like a pro!